The gym is about more than bigger muscles. It's about developing the
strength to help overcome life's biggest challenges and lift up others.
Welcome to the positive corner of the internet. No one likes to feel tricked,
especially about their health. That’s why every weekday, we make sense of the
confusing world of wellness with quick tips designed to make you healthier in
less than 5 minutes. If you were forwarded this message, you can get
the free daily email here.
Monday motivation
Are you hydrating enough?
Workout of the week
Monday motivation
1 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12Want more stories from Arnold? Every day, Arnold’s Pump Club
Podcast opens with a story, perspective, and wisdom from Arnold that
you won’t find in the newsletter. And, you’ll hear a recap of the day’s
items. You can subscribe on Apple, Spotify, Google, or wherever you
listen to podcasts.
Fitness is for everyone.
I say this over and over, but I can never repeat it enough.
This weekend, when I went to the gym, a young man looked over at me a few
times and I’ve been around long enough to get the hint: he wanted to talk to
me.
His name was Kyle. He has Down syndrome, and he’s very proud to raise
awareness about Down syndrome. He is also a bodybuilder with a big
following, and he uses his platform to inspire everyone to stop accepting the
limitations society tries to place on you.
I met Kyle at last year’s Arnold Classic, but that’s always a crazy weekend with
200,000 people, so this was the first time I spent time with him. I had a
fantastic time training him.
Monday motivation
2 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12He inspired me to come back to my favorite message this week: fitness is for
everyone.
Young, old, rich, poor, black, white, straight, gay, man, woman, “disabled,”
able-bodied — and anything in between; no matter who you are and what your
situation might be, fitness is for you.
We share this message yearly at the Arnold Sports Festival (which is coming up
in a week and a half, and tickets might still be left if you hustle and visit
Arnoldsports.com).
Monday motivation
3 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12Meet my Heroes: Fitness is for Everyone
When you see these lifters, whether Miles with cerebral palsy, Derick with one
leg, or Kyle and Garrett with Down syndrome, you can’t help but be inspired.
That’s why I love to give them the big stage.
But there’s another reason. If you saw them outside of the fitness setting, you
might feel bad for them. They don’t want that. Miles wears shirts with the “dis”
in “disability” crossed out.
Fitness gives each of them, and all of us, a way to overcome
whatever challenges we face. It’s the great equalizer. Two hundred
pounds is 200 pounds whether you live in a mansion or are struggling to put
food on the table. The barbell doesn’t see your race or sexuality or gender or
bank account or anything — it’s just asking to be picked up, no matter who you
are.
Fitness is for everyone.
What does that mean for all of us?
Well, if you’re a gym owner or involved in the fitness industry, which I know
many of our members are because we see hundreds of requests to feature your
gyms and products, it means you better make fitness welcoming to everyone.
You have to be inclusive. You can’t turn people away because of who
they are, and you must be willing to help people with different
issues find their way into the gym.
Monday motivation
4 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12If you’re turning away people like Kyle or Miles, you can never consider
yourself a success. It’s your job as a member of the fitness industry to find
every way you can to make fitness available to everyone. Imagine an
elementary school that said I only want to take the best students, no students
learning English, no students with developmental issues, no students who are
falling behind. You wouldn’t look at that school as a success. I know that it
might take a little work to make your gym welcoming to everyone, and you
might have some members who you fear will be uncomfortable, but it is worth
it. And let me be clear: it is your job to set the tone and make the gym inclusive
and open.
And for the rest of us? The weekend warriors and the daily lifters? It’s your job
to be welcoming and kind at the gym and be a missionary for it when you’re
outside the real world. Bring people into our fitness crusade. Lift them up —
don’t put them down.
It’s our responsibility to keep the big tent of fitness open because if we don’t,
how could we find this inspiration?
Because what Kyle and Miles and Derick are all really telling us is we don’t
have an excuse. They aren’t moping around, so there isn’t a challenge
big enough to keep us from getting off the couch and controlling the
one thing we can always control: focusing on our fitness and moving
forward every day.
Meeting and hanging out with these guys is better than any pre-workout you
could buy. Despite what we may see as major challenges, they’re positive and
moving forward.
That’s why fitness is for everyone. No matter what we face, it gives us the
power to change something in our lives: our strength. And when you learn
that you aren’t powerless in that one part of your life, you gain the
strength to deal with the challenges outside of the gym. It feels like
magic, but it’s really just work.
Monday motivation
5 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12I’ll keep fighting to make fitness for everyone every day of my life. But I can’t
lift this weight alone. I need all of you. Bring people in. Make them feel good.
Lift each other up.
That’s what the Pump Club is all about. We lift ourselves up, then we lift each
other up, then we lift up the world.
Caffeine is likely your best supplement to increase energy before a workout
(Good sleep and a healthy diet are the real foundations of energy). But to stay
strong throughout your workout, your best bet might be to make sure you
drink enough during your workout.
Research suggests that prioritizing hydration can help fight fatigue,
increase power and endurance, and potentially improve recovery.
When you’re not exercising, good old water is likely enough to provide your
body with all your hydration needs. However, working out changes the
equation because of how your body loses sodium through sweat.
In one study, researchers found that endurance runners finished a
race 26 minutes faster when they supplemented their water with
salt compared to those who didn’t.
Being dehydrated can reduce your strength and increase fatigue. And that’s not
all. When dehydrated and losing too much salt, you can experience confusion,
fatigue, and decreased vigor. The researchers found that your brain cells can
change slightly when dehydrated (don’t worry, it’s temporary). But that little
dehydration can make you feel more angry or depressed following
your workout.
Monday motivation
6 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12Researchers examined training performance and found that you want to drink
8 to 10 ounces of liquid for every 30 minutes of training. The more you sweat
or train (especially if you exercise for more than 60 minutes), the more you
need salt and additional electrolytes.
If you train hard and sweat a lot, our go-to drink is LMNT, which
provides the electrolytes your body needs without any added sugar,
artificial ingredients, or colors.
Your muscles and neurons need electrolytes — such as sodium, potassium, and
magnesium. And sweating depletes your body of electrolytes, which can affect
performance and recovery.
As a member of the village, you’ll get a free sample pack (8 packets) with all the
flavors when you make any purchase. Just make sure you use this link,
and the free product will be automatically added to your cart to thank
you for being part of the positive corner of the internet. If you don’t love the
product, LMNT offers a no-questions-asked refund policy, which means you’ll
be satisfied.
We recommend using electrolytes during hard workouts that last longer than
60 to 90 minutes or if you typically sweat a lot.
The first rule of The Pump app: everyone starts with The Foundation. It’s a
customized plan designed around Arnold's methods. Many begin with doubts…
and almost everyone becomes a believer. It’s a rite of passage for building a
foundation the same way as Arnold by mastering timeless exercises, developing
the mindset to train hard, and building unbreakable habits.
But after graduating from The Foundation, we offer various plans — with more
coming from Arnold’s vault.
Today, we’re giving a sneak peek at one training day from a
program we’ve yet to release. It’s another full-body workout
Monday motivation
7 of 9 19/02/2024, 20:12designed to push your body. You might think full-body programs aren’t
advanced until you go through the workouts and realize they might be more
challenging than anything you’ve tried.
This workout is filled with movements that will make you feel every muscle in
your body. Give it a try, and let us know what you think!
1. Barbell or dumbbell clean and press: 4 x 5
2. Barbell or dumbbell bent-over row: 3 x 8, 8, 6
3. Barbell or dumbbell squat: 3 x 10, 8, 6
4. Barbell or dumbbell chest press 3 x 10, 8, 6
5. Straight-leg barbell or dumbbell deadlift: 3 x 10, 10, 10
6. Barbell curls: 3 x 10
7. Lying triceps extension: 3 x 10
8. Seated calf raises: 4 x 10
We hope you all have a fantastic week ahead. Remember, you all have the
strength to lift up the world.